
---
**페이지 1**
---

The Global Impact of AI-Artificial Intelligence: Recent Advances and Future
Directions, A Review Chandregowda (Chandra), Pachegowda Department of
Professional Security Studies New Jersey City University Jersey City, New
Jersey, USA ORCID: https://orcid.org/0009- 0006-5841-6377 Abstract Artificial
intelligence (AI) is an emerging technology that has the potential to transform
many aspects of society, including the economy, healthcare, and transportation.
This article synthesizes recent research literature on the global impact of AI,
exploring its potential benefits and risks. The article highlights the
implications of AI, including its impact on economic, ethical, social, security
& privacy, and job displacement aspects. It discusses the ethical concerns
surrounding AI development, including issues of bias, security, and privacy
violations. To ensure the responsible development and deployment of AI,
collaboration between government, industry, and academia is essential. The
article concludes by emphasizing the importance of public engagement and
education to promote awareness and understanding of AI's impact on society at
large. KeywordsArtificial Intelligence, AI, Cybersecurity, Privacy, Automation.
I. INTRODUCTION Artificial intelligence (AI) is a rapidly evolving technology in
recent years. It has the potential to transform the world in several aspects of
society, across all sectors of industries and governments. AI has become the
most spoken and crucial topic of interest in research and development in the
academic field, mainly around the technological and natural language processing
space. Figure-1 illustrates the AI-related publications from the year 2000-2022,
it shows the attention from the corner that it is getting. Figure-1. Data
source: OpenAlex [1] According to Russell S. J. and Norvig P. [2], Artificial
intelligence (AI) is a field of computer science focused mainly on creating a
machine or a program that performs the tasks that typically require human
intelligence. For example, machine learning, problem-solving, decision-making,
understanding languages, natural language processing, automated reasoning, and
carrying out tasks equal to humans. These AI attributes have been broadly
classified into four approaches. Figure-2. Table information source: [2]
Thinking humanly: is a cognitive model approach where a machine is trained to
think like a human and respond. This supports Haugeland J.s [3] definition which
states there are efforts to make the computer think like humans, machines with
minds to be accurate. Automated activities like decision-making,
problem-solving, and learning are associated with human thinking [4]. Think
rationally: is a logical thinking approach using laws of thought - right
thinking that is irrefutable. This is nothing but sensible thinking through the
use of computational models and patterns [5]. The computations help perceive,
reason, and act [6]. Acting humanly: the computer is expected to possess
capabilities such as natural language processing (NLP), knowledge representation
(store learnings),

*이 페이지에 2개의 이미지가 있습니다.*


---
**페이지 2**
---

automated reasoning (answering based-on information stored), and machine
learning (adapt, detect, and infer). Machines have the art of performing
functions that require human intelligence [7]. Machines do things that people
are better at [8]. Act rationally: leverage rational thinking through correct
inferences drawn from laws of thought. Intelligent agents act using
computational intelligence [9]. Acting with adapting intelligence behavior [10].
In todays world, AI has been used in numerous applications such as medical
diagnosis, autonomous cars, home automation, social media, chatbots, virtual
assistance, financial analysis, and there are many more. According to the world
economic forum paper - The New Physics of Financial Services - understanding how
Artificial Intelligence is Transforming the financial ecosystem[11], people talk
about AI in the context of capabilities that can allow them to run businesses in
a new way with certain predictable power with a degree of autonomous learnings
to accelerate tasks across all work-area rather a sheer technological approach
or a well- defined computer science process framework. In addition, the report
highlights that AI does not exist in a vacuum, it is intertwined with all the
technological advances. [12] The best example is that AI has been started with
industrial robotics to carry out a specific set of tasks based on pre-loaded
instructions and gained momentum with home automation applications such as
conversational or voice-enabled devices, appliances, sensors, and robotic
cameras. AIs advancement has strongly convinced scholars to provide benefits in
multi- folds and it is being used across all sectors. Simply put, in a broader
context AI is going to be here to disrupt the world in all fields, help humans
provide a better experience, improved productivity, and accelerate innovation.
Figure-3 Although AI had made its ground to prove benefits in many fields, it
can also pose several challenges and ethical concerns if the technology has been
misused. This paper aims to explore and synthesize the global impact of AI in
recent years by reviewing literature and discussing the impacts of AI on various
aspects of human lives. II. IMPLICATIONS OF AI A. Economic implications Recent
studies and developments show, AI has the potential to increase economic growth
through improved labor productivity, reduced resource consumption, accelerate
innovations across sectors and touch human lives in many aspects for the better
good. It has the potential to revolutionize the global economy, healthcare, and
society at large. In the past few years: AI has gained significant attention in
the academic and industry domains, leading to several studies on its impact.
[13] Microsofts recent investment of billions of dollars in the OpenAI platform
products (ChatGPT, Co-Pilot) and [14] Googles Bard - The next generation of AI
for developers, release for public experiments are the best examples of its
predictable economic growth and development in the software industry sector. AI
has both positive and negative effects on the economy. AI can improve efficiency
and productivity, leading to increased economic growth and job creation. On the
other hand, AI can also lead to job displacement and increase the risk of
economic inequality. According to a review of the economics of artificial
intelligence by Lu Y. and Zhou Y. [15], AI certain extent would rescind jobs and
increase inequality. AI has shown promise in the field of healthcare. The
studies have explored the impact of AI on healthcare and found that AI can lead
to improved accuracy in diagnosis, enhanced patient outcomes, reduced medical
errors, better resource utilization, and increased efficiency in healthcare
delivery. Additionally, AI can lead to cost savings and increased accessibility
to healthcare services. Another industry where AI has made noteworthy strides is
finance. According to a 2018 report, The New Physics of Financial Services by
the World Economic Forum [11], AI has the potential to transform the financial
sector by enhancing customer service, improving risk management, and reducing
fraud. AI can also improve the accuracy of financial forecasts and decision-
making, leading to better investment outcomes. McKinseys global survey on AI
shows more than a hundred percentile growth. Figure-4. Chart Credit: [16]

*이 페이지에 2개의 이미지가 있습니다.*


---
**페이지 3**
---

AI adoption has more than doubled since 2017 and the proportion of organizations
using AI is between 50 and 60 percent over the past few years [16]. The
Whitehouse has recently released an economic study in response to the US-EU
Trade and Technology Council Inaugural Joint Statement, which examines the
impact of artificial intelligence on the future of the workforce in the European
Union and the United States of America [17]. The study reveals that AI adoption
is evident in firms regardless of their size and across industries such as
finance, information, professional services, and management, and more
importantly, the report emphasizes that younger and large firms are more likely
to adopt AI [17]. However, AIs impact on the physics of financial services will
demand increased collaboration to address the emerging uncertainties as its
utilization grows [11]. Whereas in security, AI globally creates new types of
risks in financial services systems and new risk-management and mitigation
strategies that will be required. In the area of human capital, AI creates new
forms of human labor needs and displaces portions of the labor force. Collective
action by institutions and regulators will be required. As AI automates
decision-making processes, new methods of protecting consumers and ensuring the
public interest is safeguarded will be required for consumer protection. Most
importantly, industry leaders, regulators, and public policy institutions must
explore and address emerging social issues [11]. As Scherer [18] points out,
regulating AI systems poses several challenges, including determining which
competencies and strategies are necessary to mitigate risks associated with AI.
Besides, studies found that ethical considerations are essential in AI and
automation, given the potential for bias and discrimination in decision-making
processes. B. Ethical Implications There are growing concerns about AIs ethical
implications becoming increasingly integrated into our lives. The ethical
implications of AI range from issues surrounding bias, privacy & security, and
accountability to transparency, explainability, and human rights. [19], in their
study The ethics of AI, argue that the ethical implications of AI require
careful consideration of its ability to affect human behavior and values. The
use of AI in social media platforms can lead to the spread of misinformation and
fake news, undermining democratic processes and social cohesion. To mitigate
these issues, researchers have proposed using crowdsourcing and other approaches
to combat misinformation on social media [20]. Another ethical consideration is
the potential for AI to reinforce and amplify existing biases in society and
amplify false information as truth. The design of AI systems must consider the
potential for biased outcomes and work toward developing transparent and
accountable AI systems. There is an increasing need for greater transparency and
interdisciplinary collaboration to address the ethical, legal, and social
implications and explainability of AI systems so that their decision-making
processes can be understood and scrutinized by humans. The interdisciplinary
approach is also necessary to address the complex ethical considerations
associated with AI, including, issues related to privacy, bias, and
transparency. Further, an empathetic approach to AI could address these
concerns, leading to more ethical AI systems. C. Social Implications The social
implications of artificial intelligence are huge and wide-ranging, with
applications in education, media, and transportation such as autonomous vehicles
and more. In education, AI can be used to personalize learning and improve
educational outcomes for students. The policymakers in public and private
sectors should consider investing in AI education and training programs to
ensure that the workforce is equipped with the necessary skills to work
alongside AI systems. This investment will also help to mitigate concerns
related to job displacement due to automation. Despite the benefits, AI also
presents several challenges, including the potential for biased and
misinformation on social media platforms [20] and the need for ethical, legal,
and technical governance of AI systems [21]. On the internet and social media
space, AI is used for content recommendation and personalized advertising,
leading to concerns about the potential for manipulation and the creation of
filter bubbles - A situation in which an internet user encounters only
information and opinions that conform to and reinforce their own beliefs, caused
by algorithms that personalize an individuals online experience [22]. In
addition, the use of AI in these media platforms can also raise privacy concerns
as it can collect vast amounts of personal data without consent. Therefore, it
is crucial to consider the potential positive and negative impacts of AI and to
work towards responsible development and implementation of AI systems. In the
transportation space, adopting AI-based technologies has already shown great
potential to improve safety, efficiency, accessibility, and maintainability.
Self-driving cars, for instance, have the potential to significantly reduce
accidents and fatalities caused by human errors. Conversely, there are still
concerns about the safety of autonomous (self-driving) vehicles and the need for
greater regulation and supervision. D. Security and Privacy Implications A
significant challenge with AI is the potential for security and privacy
breaches. As AI systems become more prevalent in various industries, they may
become prime targets for cyberattacks, which can compromise sensitive data and
information. In addition, since AI has already been integrated into our daily
lives, there is a need for clear and comprehensive regulation. For example, in
healthcare, AI systems that store patient data could be vulnerable to
cyberattacks, leading to the theft of patient information. Similarly, AI systems
used in finance may be vulnerable to fraud, resulting in financial losses for
individuals and

---
**페이지 4**
---

organizations. On the other hand, bad attackers can use AI for sophisticated and
powerful cybersecurity attacks. To mitigate security and privacy concerns, it is
essential to implement robust security measures, such as encryption and
multi-factor authentication, to protect sensitive data. Regular security audits
can also help identify and address vulnerabilities in AI systems. The impact of
AI on the global economy, healthcare, and society will continue to grow in the
coming years. As such, it is crucial to consider the potential implications of
AI carefully and work towards responsible development and implementation of AI
systems. Scherer [18] highlights the importance of developing regulatory
frameworks that balance the benefits of AI with potential risks associated with
its use, such as bias and discrimination. Additionally, AI developers and
policymakers should consider security & privacy considerations from the outset
of AI development to ensure that AI systems are designed with ethical principles
in mind. The studies suggest the need for collaboration between healthcare
providers and AI developers to ensure that AI systems are integrated seamlessly
into existing healthcare systems while also ensuring patient safety and privacy.
Further, policymakers should consider investing in AI education and training
programs to ensure that the workforce is equipped with the necessary skills to
work alongside AI systems. This investment could also help to mitigate concerns
related to job displacement due to automation. III. CONCLUSION In conclusion,
the global impact of artificial intelligence is a multifaceted and complex topic
that requires devotion from various stakeholders from both private and
government institutions. AI has the potential to revolutionize many industries,
including healthcare, finance, transportation, information, and content-sharing
spaces such as the Internet, media, and social media. AI has huge potential to
contribute to economic growth. To fully realize the benefits of AI and mitigate
its risks, a collaboration between government, industry, and academia is
essential. Regulatory frameworks should be established to ensure ethical and
responsible AI development and international cooperation should be promoted to
address global challenges posed by AI. Public engagement and education are also
critical to promote awareness and understanding of AI's impact on society. The
future of AI is both exciting and uncertain, but careful consideration and
proactive measures with appropriate regulation can help create a world where AI
is harnessed for the greater good of humanity. Working collectively to ensure
that AI is used for the benefit of all people rather than just a select few is
vital. Through interdisciplinary collaboration and a focus on ethical
considerations, AI has the potential to improve many aspects of our lives while
also mitigating potential risks associated with its use. IV. REFERENCES [1]
OECD.AI (2023). visualizations powered by JSI using data from OpenAlex.,
accessed on 30/4/2023, www.oecd.ai. [2] Russell, S. and Norvig, P. (2010)
Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach. 3rd Edition, Prentice-Hall, Upper
Saddle River. [3] Haugeland, J. (Ed.). (1985). Artificial Intelligence: The Very
Idea. MIT Press. [4] Bellman, R. E. (1978). An Introduction to Artificial
Intelligence: Can Computers Think? Boyd & Fraser Publishing Company. [5]
Charniak, E. and McDermott, D. (1985). Introduction to Artificial Intelligence.
Addison-Wesley. [6] Winston, P. H. (1992). Artificial Intelligence (Third
edition). Addison- Wesley. [7] Kurzweil, R. (1990). The Age of Intelligent Ma-
chines. MIT Press. [8] Rich, E. and Knight, K. (1991). Artificial Intelligence
(second edition). McGraw-Hill. [9] Poole, D., Mackworth, A. K., and Goebel, R.
(1998). Computational intelligence: A logical approach. Oxford University Press.
[10] Nilsson, N. J. (1998). Artificial Intelligence: A New Synthesis. Morgan
Kaufmann. [11] weforum.org. (2018). The New Physics of Financial Services.
https://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_New_Physics_of_Financial_Serv ices.pdf [12]
Haenlein, M., & Kaplan, A. (2019). A Brief History of Artificial Intelligence:
On the Past, Present, and Future of Artificial Intelligence. California
Management Review, 61(4), 514.
https://draweb.njcu.edu:2087/10.1177/0008125619864925 [13] Dina, B. (2023).
Microsoft Invests $10 Billion in ChatGPT Maker OpenAI.
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-01-
23/microsoft-makes-multibillion-dollar-investment-in- openai#xj4y7vzkg [14]
Thomas Kurian, (2023). The next generation of AI for developers and Google
Workspace. https://blog.google/technology/ai/ai-developers-
google-cloud-workspace/?_ga=2.64416111.1780623597.1678725505-
76538769.1607985801 [15] Lu, Y., & Zhou, Y. (2021). A review on the economics of
artificial intelligence. Journal of Economic Surveys, 35(4), 10451072.
https://doi.org/10.1111/joes.12422 [16] Michael Chui (2022). mckinsey.com. The
state of AI in 2022and a half decade in review
https://www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/quantumblack/our-insights/the-
state-of-ai-in-2022-and-a-half-decade-in-review?cid=eml-web [17]
www.whitehouse.gov. (2022). The Impact of Artificial Intelligence on the Future
of Workforces in the European Union and the United States of America.
https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-
content/uploads/2022/12/TTC-EC-CEA-AI-Report-12052022-1.pdf [18] Scherer, M. U.
(2016). Regulating artificial intelligence systems: Risks, challenges,
competencies, and strategies. Harvard Journal of Law & Technology, 29(2),
354-400. [19] Morley J, Machado CCV, Burr C, Cowls J, Joshi I, Taddeo M, Floridi
L. The ethics of AI in health care: A mapping review. Soc Sci Med. 2020
Sep;260:113172. doi:10.1016/j.socscimed.2020.113172. Epub 2020 Jul 15. PMID:
32702587. [20] Pennycook, G., & Rand, D. G. (2021). Fighting misinformation on
social media using crowdsourced judgments of news source quality. Proceedings of
the National Academy of Sciences, 118(11), e2020986118. [21] Cath, C. (2018).
Governing artificial intelligence: ethical, legal, and technical opportunities
and challenges. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A: Mathematical,
Physical and Engineering Sciences, 376(2133), 20180080. [22] Chandler, D., &
Munday, R. (2016) A Dictionary of Social Media. : Oxford University Press.
https://www.oxfordreference.com/view/10.1093/acref/9780191803093.0
01.0001/acref-9780191803093.